What is Dataset Analysis?

Dataset Analysis is defined as manipulating or processing unstructured data or raw data to draw valuable insights and conclusions that will help derive critical decisions that will add some business value. The dataset analysis process is followed by organizing the dataset, transforming the dataset, visualizing the dataset, and finally modeling the dataset to derive predictions for solving the business problems, making informed decisions, and effectively planning for the future.

 

Data Pipeline: 

It refers to a system for moving data from one system to another. The data may or may not be transformed, and it may be processed in real-time (or streaming) instead of batches. A data pipeline is extracting or capturing data using various tools, storing raw data, cleaning, validating data, transforming data into a query-worthy format, visualization of KPIs including Orchestration of the above process is data pipeline.

 

What is the Agenda of the project?

The project’s Agenda involves Analyzing the data using SQL on the Oracle Database Software. We first download the Oracle Database 21c edition from the official Oracle website and understand the problem. Then a Password is set up for the “SYSTEM” username during the setup of Oracle Database 21c software. Then SQL Plus is used to connect to Oracle Database using the same credentials of the Oracle Database 21c. 

Further, a Database connection is established from SQL Developer to the Oracle Database using the “SYSTEM” username and the password. Then tables are created in the database followed by data insertion into tables and exploration, i.e., noticing relationships between tables, walking through the columns, and seeing comments. Records are displayed in an ordered manner, handling NULL values, and selecting records based on patterns like Wildcard, Operators, etc. Then working on Data Manipulation commands(DML) for Data Analysis. Then taking Backup of the Table where migration is going on and use COMMIT and ROLLBACK commands. Then listing down distinct records, further renaming columns, and finally, listing down employee details based on the complex nested conditions.
